See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/356065656
E-Tourism: A Study of Tourist Satisfaction
Article · October 2021
CITATIONS
4
READS
2,001
2 authors:
Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projects:
Role and Impacts of Occupational Practices in Accommodation Operations View project
Akshay Nain
Amity University
12 PUBLICATIONS   26 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Abhimanyu Awasthi
Amity University
25 PUBLICATIONS   30 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Akshay Nain on 09 November 2021.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development (IJTSRD)
Volume 5 Issue 6, September-October 2021 Available Online: www.ijtsrd.com e-ISSN: 2456 – 6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1745
E-Tourism: A Study of Tourist Satisfaction
Mr. Akshay Nain, Mr. Abhimanyu Awasthi
Amity School of Hospitality, Amity University Haryana, Panchgaon, Manesar, Gurugram, Haryana, India
ABSTRACT
Internet and computers technology has an inevitable impact on
tourism industry. Hence, understanding of what creates a satisfying
tourist experience becomes crucial for e-tourism service
environment. This research paper investigates the satisfaction level of
tourists in using e-tourism services. This study is based on primary
data sources collected by using self-constructed questionnaire by
adopting convenient sampling technique from the tourists who
purchase tourism products/service from electronic means i.e.
internet/website. The data was collected through online questionnaire
from respondents by adopting convenient sampling technique. The
suitable statistical tools such as frequency distribution, percentage,
mean and rank methods were used to analyze the data. The result of
the study present through figures & tables to make it more
meaningful. The findings of the study revealed that the factors
namely convenience, merchandising and serviceability satisfying
tourists’ requirements whereas other does not do so. The study
concluded the necessity of continuous improvement of factors to
increase customer loyalty in tourism sector.
KEYWORDS: Internet, computer technology, tourism, e-booking,
satisfaction, repurchases
How to cite this paper: Mr. Akshay
Nain | Mr. Abhimanyu Awasthi "ETourism: A Study of Tourist
Satisfaction" Published in International
Journal of Trend in
Scientific Research
and Development
(ijtsrd), ISSN: 2456-
6470, Volume-5 |
Issue-6, October
2021, pp.1745-
1753, URL:
www.ijtsrd.com/papers/ijtsrd47697.pdf
Copyright © 2021 by author (s) and
International Journal of Trend in
Scientific Research and Development
Journal. This is an
Open Access article
distributed under the
terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License (CC BY 4.0)
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0)
INTRODUCTION
Information & communication technology is widely
used in business related activities (Avramovic, 2010)
especially in service sector like tourism. ICT
represent one of the most effective tools for tourism
promotion, generate more revenue for the local
economy, and remain competitive by promoting new
and complementary tourism offers online (Bethapudi,
2013; UNCTAD, 2005). Hence, the integration of
ICT in the tourism industry is essential for success of
tourism enterprise. ICT facilitates an individual to
access the tourism products information from
anywhere any time in a single click (Bethapudi,
2013).There are three stages in tourism; the first one
is when the people who are likely to travel start
searching for accommodation, air/rail tickets and
other tourist services while planning their trip.
This stage is called pre-trip stage. The next stage
starts when tourists commence their journey and
make it to their first destination or wrap up their
journey. The mentioned stage is called in-trip stage.
The third and final stage follows the previous stage
and consists of the services which tourist service
providers offer their customers after their trip
(Massomeh, 2006).
For guest travelling to a certain destination get help of
ICT to help them in gathering details about it in a way
that it becomes easier and more clear to choose
among available products & services. Same creates a
personalized travel plan, for instance as a proactive
proposal based on tourist profile and preferences.
During travel phase electronic guide system that
provides travelers with road direction signs and
electronic information notes should be released to
enhance travel experience. After a travel tour & travel
phase it is so necessary to gather travel experience of
guests with the help of ICT tools providing platform
to the guests for sharing their experience. Other
guests use this feedback as a basis for decision
making. The impact of ICT in form of e-tourism is
such that it plays a vital role in keeping travel and
tourism sector of that particular area competitive and
abreast with modern innovative technologies.
Tourism is acknowledged to be very information
intensive. Hence it is of utmost importance to practice
e-tourism practices which eventually help travelers
and guests choose their required services& products
based on the available information and feedback
online.
IJTSRD47697
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1746
Since, ICTs have been applied in tourism since as
early adoption of Computer Reservation System
(CRS) in airlines in 1950s and in the transformation
to Global Distribution Systems (GDSs) in the 1980s,
Destination Management Organizations (DMO) and
Hotel property management systems (PMSs) and
hotel CRS systems appeared shortly afterwards,
bringing switch companies into the market as well in
order to improve interconnectivity and
interoperability. However, it is the development of
the Internet that brought the revolutionary changes to
the structure of the industry (Xiaoqiu et al., 2003;
Gupta, 2012).
The internet revolutionizes flexibility in both
consumer choice and service delivery processes.
Customers have become much more demanding and
perceptive for high quality products and value for
their money. This also includes value for time,online
information and ease of gathering their required
information. This demands travel agents, tour
operators, tourist handling offices, airlines, hotels and
car rental companies etc to be developed suiting the
need and demand of travelers. This also helps travel
employees and managers to handle guests and
travelers queries and service them more efficiently
giving them ultimate quality service and world class
experience. Deep root analysis of problems and
challenges is necessary for the managers to finding
out the causes and hurdles marring the travelers &
guest experience so that an organization stays in
demand and profitable. So, there is a quick need for
finding a way to assess and increase tourist
satisfaction while they are searching and purchasing
on line.
The tourism industry in India has a high potentiality
to grow and equipped with the number of tourist
destinations to attract domestic and international
tourists.
So, it is obvious that e-tourism is playing an
important role in the tourism industry today. Several
tourism companies have taken to the digital platform
to display information, facilitate bookings and allow
customers to reserve their preferences online. Lots of
people use tourist websites as information channel or
for purchasing tourism products instead of traditional
travel agencies. Owing to websites being the sole
channels that connect tourism companies with
tourists, it is essential to design and project them in a
sense that pleases customers (Massomeh, 2006). As a
result it is necessary to investigate which factors are
important for tourist satisfaction while they are
implementing the first step of their trip online.
LITERATURE REVIEW
It is widely recognized that information &
communication technologies are rapidly expanding
and have affected the way businesses are performed
and the way organizations compete (Porter, 2001)
especially in business like tourism which is closely
been connected to the progress of information &
communication technologies (ICTs) almost three
decades in the form of Computer Reservation
Systems (CRSs), Global Distribution Systems
(GDSs) and the Internet have transformed operational
and strategic practices dramatically in tourism
(Buhalis and Law, 2008). Therefore, it is of
paramount importance to offer tourism product search
and booking online.
Since, several tourism practitioners increased their
efforts to develop the online booking of tourism
products and services such as airline or train service,
hotel rooms, vacation packages, car rentals and so on.
The implementation of e-tourism created expectations
among tourists in terms of the quick response to
enquiries, more detailed and tailored information on
tourism destinations, possibility of booking travel,
accommodation and restaurants online, able to check
out competition easily at the click of a button,
importance of destination management and marketing
of tourism products and services, tourism marketing
(Scottish Parliament ,2002). These expectations are
essential for measuring tourist satisfaction.
Satisfaction with these expectations are seen as the
basis to which the customer relates for their
requirements. In time, expectations rise, so, in order
to maintain the level of satisfaction continuous
improvement is needed (Flavian et al., 2006).When
customers get what they had anticipated, a great
amount of satisfaction is achieved which plays a
major role in impacting their outlook while shopping
online, decision making, and purchasing (Wu & Ho
1999).However, if perceived performance falls below
initial expectation, then the tourist may be dissatisfied
(Masoomeh, 2006). For the travel sector, it is
inevitable choice to provide online booking for
improving service efficiency, enhancing service
quality and gaining competitive advantages (Pen &
Chen, 2013) and more importantly enhancing esatisfaction.
The examination of consumer satisfaction in an
online context is not only a critical performance
outcome, but also a primary predictor of customer
loyalty (Masoomeh, 2006) because satisfied tourists
are more likely to recommend the tourist destination
to others, which is the cheapest and most effective
form of marketing and promotion by positive word of
mouth and development of long-term loyalty to the
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1747
destination. Moreover, an increment in the tourist
numbers and overall earning as economic objectives
will increase when the tourists feel satisfied.
Consequently, destination managers should establish
a higher tourist satisfaction level to create positive
post-purchase tourist behavior (Yoon &Uysal, 2005)
by decreasing the existing gap between expectations
made by customers and noticeable experiences for
around the globe.
ICT is expected to improve the quality of services and
enhancing the level of clients’ satisfaction as well. It
is stated that while e-commerce is mainly related to
the utilization of a new technological asset, it is very
crucial to be receptive towards online environment
which would create an upbeat relationship with
satisfaction. Bai et al. (2008) believe that in online
environments, there should be a significant effort to
fulfill customers’ satisfaction because it increases
their intentions for actual purchase of tourism
products online. So, a good understanding of factors
that affect online customer satisfaction is very
important to the electronic marketing.
Cyr (2008) has done a research on e-satisfaction in
the hotel industry. He examined a total of three
segments of website design which included virtual
design, navigation and information while assessing
relationships between faith and fulfilment with
allegiance within the setting of multiple cultures.
On the other hand Chang & Hsu (2013) investigated
online customer perceived value in relation to the
online purchase of tourism products in Thailand. The
study revealed that online purchasing has become
more prevalent recently due to relatively lower prices
and convenience for customers which in turn focus on
promoting online purchase in tourism. Similarly,
Yang et al. (2003) identify a total of 14 dimensions
and 42 sub-dimensions of internal service quality
although as they report, only five are the principal
drivers of customer satisfaction. They are
responsiveness, credibility, ease of use, reliability and
convenience.
There are some very significant components for
online consumers satisfaction which are
confidentiality, usability, location plan and privacy,
ease, usability, trust and trustworthiness delivery, and
merchandising, product quality, product value and
product customization. These factors proved to be the
most important indicator in determining buyer
satisfaction online. These are important as they affect
buyers’ online behavior.
Szymansky&Hise, (2000) in a study on online
satisfaction reveals several antecedents of satisfaction
such as convenience, site design, product information,
financial security etc. Though, economic security is
not the key predictor of e-satisfaction amidst ebuyers.
Phuong (2010) conducted a study in order to
determine tourists’ satisfaction on E-tourism in
Vietnam. The study showed that the greatest
influences on e-satisfaction are site design and
convenience. It was also found that perception of
superior product information and product offering do
not have a impressive effect on online satisfaction
level. In fact these two are tied together as the first
most important determines of e-satisfaction.
Alagha (2013) in a study analyzed that convenience
factor has the greatest influence on user satisfaction
of online services. After that specialization,
accessibility and web- site design strongly effect on
user satisfaction. Hence convenience and
specialization can be introduced as the two most
important factors of e-tourism. Website design should
be improved in order to be faster and more userfriendly. Increasing time efficiency, possibility of
purchase from anywhere, at any time and cost
efficiency are some of the factors which can increase
users’ convenience. Lack of special offers and lack of
complete packages from websites, comparing with
travel agencies are some of the main reasons that
people still have tendency to produce their packages
by agencies.
Cho & Park (2001) in study identified that duration of
delivery, accuracy of delivery duration, delivery
costs, variety of accepted credit cards, variety of
payment methods, quality of product information, site
design, ease of use and suitable information provided
on delivery are characteristics used to assess
satisfaction. Furthermore, Schaupp& Belanger (2005)
declared that since the transactions occur
electronically and the customer can only get the
product subsequent to placing the order, providing a
tracking number and minimizing the delivery time is
important. In terms of convenience, ease of shopping
has proven to be more important in relation to the
ability to compare prices and get information.
Coker (2013) conducted a study by focusing on
website navigation, website performance,
trustworthiness of website in order to determine
antecedents to website satisfaction, loyalty and word
of mouth. The author further identified several
variables for measuring website satisfaction and
loyalty such as ease of use, ease of search,
information quality & relevance and visual appeal etc.
Dargah &Golrokhsari (2012) in their study aimed on
E-tourism and customer satisfaction stated that ICT
are rapidly expanding and have affected the business
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1748
and the way organizations complete. They further
explored that time efficiency, possibility of
purchasing anywhere & anytime, direct access to
information and customer service are the factors
which build convenience in e-tourism comparing with
traditional travel agencies.
In conclusion there are many factors that can be
considered as basis to measure satisfaction of tourists
in e-tourism. While ICT have its great significance in
tourism business but despite the importance of Etourism there has been less research on its different
aspects. In this research the gap in previous research
will be attempted to be filled by finding the Esatisfaction in tourism industry.
OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
The present study is focused on empirically
identifying the satisfaction level of tourists in etourism environment.
RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
The present study is going to investigate satisfaction
of tourists while they are purchasing online. The
study used primary data sources. An extensive review
of literature were reviewed in order to find out the
suitable factors for the study and then interviews are
conducted with both, people who travel a lot and also
experts. These experts are professional in tourism and
customer online buying behavior. Next step for
answering research question is to prepare a selfstructured questionnaire to collect primary data from
respondents through. The respondents were those
who electronically purchased the tourism services
such as airline tickets, train tickets, hotels, car rentals,
package tours etc at least once. The data were
collected from 50 respondents through online
questionnaire in order to receive quick feedback. The
questionnaire starts with socio-demographic
information. After that there were asked about
responding to their level of satisfaction towards
electronic tourism purchasing by adopting five point
Liker scale ranging from highly satisfied (5) to highly
dissatisfied (1). After collection of data it was
tabulated and analyzed with the help of suitable
statistical tools such as frequency distribution,
percentage, mean and rank method and so on. The
result of the study was presented through diagrams
and figures in order to make it more attractive.
RESULT OF THE STUDY
Socio-Demographic Profile of the Respondents
The respondents were inquired about their sociodemographic background. Out of total respondents 32
respondents were male as compared to 18 female.
This indicates that male respondents were more
enthusiastic to participate in survey. In respect of age
almost forty percent (19) respondents were between
21-30 years followed by 31-40 years respondents
(14), 41-60 years (11) and above 60 years (06). This
depicted that youngsters were more interested in
online purchasing of services or products. Out of total
respondents 17 were postgraduate, 13 were graduate,
and 12 were more than postgraduate whereas
remaining 08 were studied up to senior secondary
level. This brings it to notice that higher the
qualification of the respondents more will be the
chances of online purchasing. It means there is
positive association between education level of
respondents and their online purchasing behavior. On
asking about occupation from the respondents
belongs to students and serviceperson shared the
almost same frequencies (16 & 15 respectively),
followed by 10 businessperson and 09 belongs to
other occupation such as shopkeepers, farmers, retired
person etc. As far as income level of the respondents
concerns more than forty percent (21) were in the
income group of 2-5 lakhs followed by 17 those who
were in the income group of 5-10 lakh and remaining
(12) respondents were in the category of above 10
lakhs. This result showed that low income group
respondents were more likely to purchase online
travel bookings as compared to high income group
respondents. This is also due to cost effectiveness of
online bookings.
On asking about frequency of using internet 34 were
responded that they used internet daily. One fifth
respondents (10) were used internet once during a
week, 05 were used fortnightly and very rare (01)
respondents used interne once in a month. Out of total
respondents 42 were oftenly used to book travel
services through internet or websites and remaining
08 were used rarely internet or website for the
purpose. On asking about purpose of visit almost
forty percent (19) respondents used to travel for
attending business meetings & conferences followed
by more than twenty percent respondents (11) were
traveled for education & research and 14 were oftenly
visited for leisure purpose as well for leisure purpose.
The remaining respondents (06) were travelled to
visit relatives & friends. This result supported the
time efficiency of the online travel bookings. In
response to type of service booked through internet
the highest number of respondents (18) were booked
train ticket through internet followed by 13 who were
booked hotel or accommodation service, 12 were
used to book complete package tour and remaining 07
were used to book air ticket through internet or
websites. This result depicted user friendliness of the
online travel bookings.
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1749
E-Tourism Satisfaction
The respondents were inquired about to express their satisfaction level towards five selected factors of e-tourism
bookings.
Table I: Satisfaction towards E-Tourism
Factors Variables Mean
Convenience
Time efficiency of purchasing online travel service 3.82
24/7 availability of online travel booking options 4.24
Ease & friendliness in use of online travel booking 3.32
Merchandising
Variety of tourism services (Airline ticket, hotels, car rental, package tour etc.)
offered on internet 3.72
Quality & relevance of information about tourism products & services available
on internet 2.90
Cost efficiency of booking through tourism website & internet 3.16
Site Design
Visual appearance/attractiveness of website/online booking portals 3.10
Responsiveness of tourism website/internet booking portals 3.04
Personalize package offering according to your requirement 2.86
Security
Secure payment while purchasing travel services through websites or online 2.18
Privacy of personal information 1.96
Protection of bank account and credit cards/visa etc. details 2.64
Serviceability
Confirmation E mail/Sms after booking 2.18
Feedback & suggestions service availability 3.79
Provide useful links to other related websites or portals 3.34
First of all in response to convenience factor the respondents were highly satisfied with 24/7 availability of
online travel bookings with mean score of 4.24 followed by time efficiency of purchasing online travel service
(mean=3.82) and moderately satisfied with ease & friendliness of online tourism websites by occupying mean
score of 3.32.
3.82
4.24
3.32
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
Time Efficiency 24/7 Availability Ease & Friendliness
in Use
Fig I: Mean Score of Convenience Factor
As far as merchandising factor is concerned the respondents were highly satisfied responses towards variety of
tourism service available on internet for booking with mean score of 3.72. Respondents were moderately
satisfied by cost efficiency of booking of tourism service through internet with mean score of 3.16 whereas the
respondents were showing neutral responses with quality & relevance of tourism production information by
scoring mean value of 2.90.
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1750
3.72
2.9
3.16
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
Variety of Tourism
Services/Products
Quality & Relevance of
Product Information
Cost Effieciency of
Booking through
Internet
Fig II: Mean Score of Merchandising Factor
In association with Website Design satisfaction the respondents showed moderately satisfied responses towards
visual appearance or attractiveness of online travel booking websites andresponsiveness of online travel booking
websites or portals with mean score of 3.10 and3.04respectively. The respondents were express neutral response
with personalized package services offered through internet or websites with mean score of 2.86.
3.1
3.04
2.86
2.7
2.75
2.8
2.85
2.9
2.95
3
3.05
3.1
3.15
Visual Appearance Responsiveness of
Webiste
Perssonalize Package
Offering
Fig III: Mean Score of Website Design Factor
On security & safety factor the respondents were find it neutrally satisfied towards protection of bank accounts,
credit cards and visa details with mean value of 2.64. The respondents were totally dissatisfied with secure
payment options while online purchasing of travel services with mean value of 2.18 and extremely dissatisfied
with privacy of personal information while online purchasing with mean score of 1.96.
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1751
2.18
1.96
2.64
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
Secure Payment
Option
Privacy of Personal
Information
Protection of Bank
Account/ Credit
Cards/Visa
Fig IV: Mean Score of Security Factor
On questioning about serviceability factor the respondents were highly satisfied with feedback & suggestion
service available on online travel bookings or by websites by mean score of 3.79. Respondents were moderately
satisfied towards providing useful links to other related websites or services with mean score of 3.34. The
respondents were showing dissatisfied responses (mean=2.18) with the confirmation email or sms send after
online purchasing of travel services.
2.18
3.79
3.34
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
Confirmation
Email/Sms
Feedback &
Suggestion
Provide Useful Links
to Other Websites
Fig V: Mean Score of Servicability Factor
CONCLUSION
The present study was aimed to measure the esatisfaction based on five factors which affect
satisfaction in on-line purchasing. The results of the
analysis show that the factor “Convenience” has the
greatest influence on user satisfaction of online
services. Increasing time efficiency, possibility of
purchase from anywhere, at any time and cost
efficiency are some of the factors which can increase
users’ convenience. Hence “convenience” can be
introduced as the two most important factors of etourism. Discussions of merchandising factor in
tourism which is wider product offering and product
information as well its cost efficiency. Although
product offering and cost efficiency impacted esatisfaction significantly however the product
information, can be argued that the practical
significance of these effects are not great. In response
to serviceability of e-tourism it shows the satisfactory
responses. Feedback and suggestions facility and by
providing useful links jointly achieve the successful
satisfaction rate whereas the e-tourism firms are
lacking sending the emails and sms for confirming the
booking or reservations to the clients.The influence of
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1752
site design on e-satisfaction is also remarkable
through fast, friendly uncluttered sites. The
personalization of package on websites is not
significantly influence the e-satisfaction. Lack of
Special offers and lack of complete packages from
websites, comparing with travel agencies are some of
the main reasons that people still have tendency to
produce their packages by agencies. Website design
should be improved in order to be faster and more
user- friendly e-tourism.As far as security factor is
concerned respondents were dissatisfied with it which
indicated that while doing online purchasing
customers were having fear for misuse of their
personal information as well as worried about
security of their bank accounts, visa and credit cards
details etc. As the result showed, lack of security in
the consumers, mind is a threat for the E-tourism
firms; however it can be converted to an opportunity
for E-tourism organizations to gain more online
customers by ensuring better online payment as well
protection of online passwords and account details
and avoiding misuse of personal information of
customers on internet as comparing with the
traditional travel agencies.
The findings of the study can be helpful for managers
of e-tourism firms and travel agencies who plan to
enter the e-market. It highlighted the need for
planning strategies in field of e-tourism, particularly
in fields such as e-ticketing, e-reservation, online
payment, multilingual and updated information
websites. Moreover a complete and approachable way
of delivering knowledge to customers via online
sources will help to increase customer trust and
keeping the existing customer satisfied and loyal as
customer satisfaction has a direct impact on loyalty in
e-tourism market. Finally, there is need to develop the
e-tourism infrastructures in order to keep up with the
competitiveness in the future.
REFERENCES
[1] Adam, S. H. (2004), Determinants of esatisfaction in pre-order and post-order phases,
Journal of Academy of Business and
Economics.
[2] Akama, J. S. and D. M. Kieti, (2002).
Measuring tourist satisfaction with Kenya's
wildlife safari: a case study of Tsavo West
National Park. Tourism management, 24, pp.
73-81.
[3] Alagha, A. (2013). Requirements for improving
Contemporary E-tourism Information systems
in terms of customer satisfaction, Master Thesis
Submitted to Department of Computer &
Systems Sciences (DSV) Royal Institute of
Technology (KTH) Stockholm, Sweden
[4] Avramovic, M. (2010). Information
Communication Technology In The Function of
Improvement of Competitive Position of
Tourist Destination, Economics and
Organization Vol. 7, No 2, pp. 209 - 217
[5] Bai, B., R. Law and I. Wen, (2008). The impact
of website quality on customer satisfaction and
purchase intentions: evidence from Chinese
online visitors. International Journal of
Hospitality Management. 27(3), pp. 391- 402
[6] Bennett, M., and Radburn, M., (1991),
Information technology in Tourism: The impact
on theindustry and supply of holidays, in
Sinclair, T., and Stabler, M., The tourism
industry: An international analysis, CAB
International, Oxford, pp. 45-67.
[7] Bethapudi, A. (2013). The Role of Ict in
Tourism Industry, Journal of Applied
Economics and Business, Vol. 1, Issue 4, pp.
67-79.
[8] Buhalis, D. and Law, R. (2008). Progress in
information technology and tourism
management: 20 years on and 10 years.
[9] Chang, C. and Hsu, Y. H. S. (2013). Assessing
the Effect of Perceived Value, Service Quality
and Customer Satisfaction in the Online Travel
Industry, Business and Management Review
Vol. 3(03) pp. 14 – 23.
[10] Cho, N. & Park, S. (2001). Development of
electronic commerce user-consumer
satisfaction index (ECUSI) for Internet
shopping, Industrial management and Data
Systems, 101(8), pp. 400-405.
[11] Coker, B. (2013). Antecedents to Website
Satisfaction, Loyalty, and Word-Of-Mouth,
Journal of Information Systems and
Technology Management, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp.
209-218.
[12] Connolly, D. J., and Lee, S. (2006). Developing
Information Technology Proficiencies and
Fluency in Hospitality Students. Journal of
Hospitality & Tourism Education, 18(3), pp.
15-29.
[13] Cyr, D. (2008). “Modelling Website Design
across Cultures: Relationships to Trust,
Satisfaction and E-loyalty, ” Journal of
Management Information Systems, 24 (4), pp.
47-72.
[14] Dargah, D. B. and Golrokhsari, H. (2012). Etourism and Customer Satisfaction Factors,
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development @ www.ijtsrd.com eISSN: 2456-6470
@ IJTSRD | Unique Paper ID – IJTSRD47697 | Volume – 5 | Issue – 6 | Sep-Oct 2021 Page 1753
International Journal of Advances in
Management Science, 1, pp. 35-40.
[15] Flavian, C., Guinal, M. andGurrea, R. (2006).
The role played by perceived usability,
satisfaction and consumer trust on website
loyalty, Information & Management, 43, pp. 1–
14.
[16] Gupta, A. (2012). An Overview of Information
Technology in Tourism Industry, International
Journal of Applied Services Marketing
Perspectives Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 1-6.
[17] Ho, C. and Wu, W. (1999). Antecedents of
Customer Satisfaction on the Internet: An
Empirical Study of Online Shopping,
Proceedings of the 32nd Hawaii International
Conference on System Sciences, 1, Retrieved
from
http://www.computer.org/proceedings/hicss/00
01/00015/00015027.PDF.
[18] Jadhav, V. S. and Mundhe, S. D. (2011).
Information technology in Tourism,
International Journal of Computer Science and
Information Technologies, Vol. 2 (6), pp. 2822-
2825.
[19] Kim, G. W., X. Ma and D. J. Kim, (2005).
Determinants of Chinese hotel customers' esatisfaction and purchase intention. Tourism
Management.
[20] Kim, W. G., & Ham, S. (2007). The Impact of
Information Technology Implementation on
Service Quality in the Hotel Industry.
Information Technology in Hospitality, 4(4),
pp. 143-151.
[21] Massomeh, M. (2006). Electronic Satisfaction
in Tourism Industry, Master Thesis submitted
to Luleå University of Technology.
[22] Phuong, D. V. (2010). Evaluating tourists‟
satisfaction on E-tourism in Vietnam, Master
Thesis submitted to Shu-Te University, Yan
Chao, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, Republic of China.
[23] Porter, M., 2001. Strategy and the Internet.
Harvard Business Review 79, 3, pp. 63–78.
[24] Schaupp and Bélanger (2005) A Conjoint
Analysis of Online Consumer Satisfaction,
Journal of Electronic Commerce Research, Vol.
6, No. 2, pp. 95-111
[25] Schefter, P. and Reichheld, F (2000) “ELoyalty , “ Harvard Business Review , 78 (4),
pp. 105-114.
[26] Scottish Parliament, Tourism e-business, Aug.
2002.
[27] Singh, A. J., Kim, H., and Huh, C. (2006).
Differential Impacts of Information Technology
Services in the Korean Hotel Industry: A Study
of Management Perceptions. FIU Hospitality
Review, 24(2), pp. 78-89.
[28] SzymanskyMD, Hise T R. (2000), Esatisfaction: An initial examination, Journal of
Retailing, 76(3), pp. 309-322.
[29] Walden, P, and Ancker, P, (2001), Introducing
web technology in a small peripheral
hospitality organization, International Journal
of Contemporary Hospitality.
[30] Werthner, H. and Klein, S. (1999) Information
Technology and Tourism- A challenging
relationship, WIen, New York Springer.
[31] Williams, P., 1993. Information technology and
tourism: a dependent factor for future survival,
In Ritchie, B., Hawkins, D., Go, F. and
Flechtling, D. Editors World Travel and
Tourism Review: Indicators, Trends and Issues,
Vol. 3 (2nd edn.), CAB International, Oxford,
pp: 200-205
[32] Xiaoqiu Ma, Jennifer, D. B., and Haiyan S.
(2003), ICTs and internet adoption in china's
tourism industry, international journal of
information management, 23, pp. 451-467.
[33] Yang, X., Z. Ahmed, M. Ghingold, G. Boon, T.
Mei and L. Hwa, (2003). Consumer preferences
for commercial web site design: an Asia-Pasific
perspective. Journal of Consumer Marketing,
20: 1.
[34] Yoon, Y., and Uysal, M. (2005). An
examination of the effects of motivation and
satisfaction on destination loyalty: a structural
model. Tourism management, 26(1), pp. 45-56.
View publication stats